so we were talking we just did a video
responding to Joey carb strong and one
issue that came out of that it's
mentioned very briefly in that video is
that in fact when we as vegans refused
to buy meat we do not save the lives of
any animals even though as a propaganda
statement as a promotional statement as
an ideological statement many vegans
will say I am vegan for the animals or I
am vegan to save the lives of animals
and it's a lot of websites will tell you
as a statement of fact that if you are
vegan you save maybe four cows a year
and so many fish per year and some of
you that you are receiving animal lives
so what came up in tho that last video
we did is that this is not true
it may be useful as a propaganda claim
but what actually happens in a
free-market society is that if you and I
as individuals refuse to buy meat the
price of meat comes down it makes me
cheaper and more readily available for
meat-eaters so that's true if just you
and I just a few people boycott need the
only impact we can have from the boycott
itself in terms of supply and demand is
making me cheaper because there's
there's less demand the same- fly out
there right but even when you scale it
up even if you're talking about vegans
in their thousands vegans and the tens
of thousands and vegans are the hive's
of thousands all we are doing by
boycotting those industries is making
their products cheaper and more readily
available if you want to scale it all
the way up look at an enormous country
like India this really puts the lie to
the claim that reduce it Aryans are
saving animal lives India has millions
and tens of millions of people who are
variously vegetarian vegan reduce it
Aryan somewhere on that end of the
spectrum the cows are still getting
their throats that it doesn't eliminate
the meat industry and you can do the
math you can very easily do economic
projections if everyone in India ate
meat then what would happen to the price
and availability meat would become
scarce in terms of supply and demand
meet with
more expensive if suddenly everyone in
India ceased being a vegetarian right so
on up on a large scale it doesn't stop
the cycle of exploitation and suffering
I think this came as a surprise to you
when we mentioned the last video you
said afterwards no I never thought of it
that way before that we're not saving
the lives of animals because right I
come from a family where one dairy is
cheap they're like you know my parents
were like I buy a bunch of milk you know
like right so I can totally see that
being the case like my price goes down
that doesn't mean that there will be
less demands demand or maybe even more
so this also happens just due to price
shocks sometimes without vegans being a
factor you know the less than 1% of
people were vegan or whatever the the
price of milk goes up and down the price
of specific type of meat like pork or
beef goes up or down however even when
there is some kind of big dislocation in
the market like there's a big economic
crisis or a recession or a depression or
a war breaks out these are things on a
huge scale that can suddenly cause me to
become more expensive or more cheap to
you know sudden dislocations market this
also never saves the life of even one
animal alright I just wanna I want to
emphasize this because many vegans will
evade this point they'll say well that
may be true on a large scale you're
talking about supply and demand the
price go up and down but still somehow
me personally by me refusing to eat meat
at this table there's one cow somewhere
at one factory who's not being killed no
there isn't
you as of one vegan and we as a hundred
thousand vegans we can never have as
much impact as a recession like the 2008
recession sudden economic change or of a
break of a huge war we can never have
that kind of impact on the on the market
on the economy in the absolute nor on
the meat industry specifically however
even when that happens even when there's
a sudden dislocation so she's talking
about her parents go to the store and
suddenly find for some reason dairy
products are cheaper
who knows why there's some temporary
some temporary the market feature that's
causing this to happen when it is not
profitable to raise slaughter and sell
the animals they kill them and put them
in a ditch
some of you know exactly what I'm
talking about if you have any experience
in the the meat industry or on farms
would have you it is true in Canada this
happen repeatedly during my lifetime the
price the market price of pork drops so
low that farmers cull their pigs that
they kill them without sending them to a
slaughterhouse
so even when they have even if the price
so again yes you can lower the price by
being vegan yes a hundred thousand
vegans come with rice
but when you lower it more it doesn't
save the life of one Pig they don't say
oh well you know what pigs are so cheap
now I'm gonna take this pig and release
it into the forest or I'm gonna take
this pig and turn into someone's house
but no they call those pigs
sometimes through gassing sometimes
through bullets so instead of cruel
methods like starvation that's actually
issue in Canada is trying to enforce
against cruel myths because they can
just you know not feed them with them
let them starve to death the farm and of
course this is obviously I've just said
this about pigs but cows yeah even deer
because some of those smaller meats you
know deer raised and not wild deer you
know they're raised for their um their
horns and so on
sorry it's a complex market but that
also the price can go up and down and
then suddenly that is get rid of a bunch
of deer and someone says well it's not
worth raising these deer the felt of
their horns is is valuable yeah as well
as their meat they do also sell venison
but you can imagine the venison market
the price can go up and down quite
unexpectedly and so on not because
because so yeah
culling those am so this is one reality
no you as a vegan have not saved even
one animal through your diet you as a
vegan have not saved one animal by
banning this material and I have to put
in as a footnote it's possible you've
saved an animal by swimming into a pond
and rescuing an animal when it was
drowning or climbing up a tree and
receipe an animal from a tree I'm not
saying you've never saved an animal's
life you may have hands-on in that sense
but the the
function of the boycott does not save
lives it's a lie it's a propaganda lie
and I've said this about why I quit
Buddhism I don't want to be part of a
religion that's built on a lie I don't
want to convert other people to a
religion through lying to them I don't
want to be part of a political movement
that's built on a lie
same kind of reasoning for me and I'm
not gonna lie I don't lie to others not
a lot of myself so whenever I see those
charts saying the number of lives you've
saved this year by being vegan or how
many lives you save I say no and again
we can look at real world examples
Taiwan Israel India these are countries
with big being in populations those are
probably the three biggest
proportionally and no it doesn't save a
single life yeah you know it's not like
I would go back to eating meat after you
know finding this out like you really
think about it more tonight like like
now that I realize that I'm not saving
animal animal's life I know it's not
like I'm gonna go back to buying meat
right right because I do feel like that
is contributing like I mean other than
personal purity like what is what is the
reason well there I think I think there
are two things here one is about doing
the right thing because it's the right
thing to do yeah you know what I mean
that's that's a fundamental question so
we have some fancy electronics here you
know if you can buy this st. this is a
portable speaker if you can buy this
made by slaves or say no I refuse to
support the slave industry you're
symbolic act is to refuse to support
slavery it's a choice and in politics
I'm going to come back to this symbolic
actions matter you know when I was
involved in Cambodian politics watching
politics in places like Cambodia and
Laos much more closely Cambodia had a
sham election an election that was not
legitimate and was controlled by the
government
and I remember banging my hand on the
desk and saying why don't the Japanese
closed their embassy one of the Japanese
lower their flag
I don't expect Japan to invade Cambodia
you know it's ridiculous
I respect Japan to even cut off trade
with Cambodia but lowering your flag and
making a public statement these
elections were not legitimate that's
powerful and important and it is
Bullock in the English language some
people are watching this video we always
say merely symbolic you think symbolic
is nothing you think it's merely
symbolic no it wouldn't matter if the
Government of Japan lit up and said hey
we know the difference between a
legitimate election and a fake one and
this is a fake election and your
government is no legitimacy that matters
in politics okay and it matters when
people stand up and say look this is a
nice electronic trinket but I don't want
it if it's made by children or slaves or
prisoners
you know prison labor is another issue
I'm gonna draw the line somewhere now
that can be the start of a political
process but the boycott in itself
doesn't have any of those outcomes right
it's the start it's the first step it's
not the last step and the next point I
want to raise illustrates this further
although it's not directly the next step
so we're talking about the pricing
mechanism which is a fundamental aspect
of economics not just in capitalism even
in communism in all economic even in
feudalism in all economic systems the
pricing mechanism is fundamental supply
and demand prices go up and down okay
even in the cocaine market you know what
I was saying no matter what we're
talking about these same these same laws
of physics if you like are at work what
is the impact of government subsidy on
the dairy industry of government support
for milk and cheese and in many cases
meat you know the government supports
the production of meat now we can't
generalize to simply here it is actually
different in the United States than it
is in Canada it's very different in New
Zealand I did some reading about that
cos as some supporters on patreon from
New Zealand so it was different in
England and France different countries
have different mechanisms however the
fundamental point I made here was when
you boycott meat as a vegan you make
meat cheaper and more available what
happens when you abolish government
support for me when you abolish
government subsidy for the dairy
industry then dairy products become more
expensive they become less readily
available less regularly available also
you disrupt the market in a
way and the only way to take this in and
pursue that is on the moral high ground
is to say hey we want the government to
stop supporting dairy industry the same
way 50 years ago people wanted them to
stop supporting the cigarette industry
and at some extent to stop supporting
the alcohol industry that's also been a
change you know government attitudes
towards alcohol and you know advertising
of alcohol most places you know you
can't advertise alcohol at a sporting
game anymore and this kind of thing you
know there's all these kinds of
restrictions on the advertising and
probe the culture of alcohol is changing
including political attitudes towards
alcohol and drunk driving all these
things you know that change I don't
think you can possibly advocate for
those changes without first being vegan
without the boycott as step 1 say hey
this is immoral not a part of it but the
point is it's only the first step and
what's absolutely necessary after that
is exactly political militant to
militate for real political changes and
the impact in Canada as an example the
impact of abolishing government support
for dairy would be devastating and would
be devastating to the whole industry
because let me tell you something veal
and leather and dairy they're one
industry there are different steps of
the same cycle of suffering and
exploitation you can't have one without
the other leather is not going to be
produced at the same price if the
government isn't subsidizing dairy veal
isn't gonna be available at the same
price and with the same quantity and
regularly regularity without the
government supporting dairy so these
things are linked if you take one brick
out of the wall the whole wall gets
weaker and in the process of militating
as I say for political change of
organizing and demanding that kind of
political change you galvanize your
whole society
you challenge cultural values things
start to change in all kinds of ways
tangible and intangible and the first
step towards that is to define yourself
as vegan and to refuse to buy these
things and as we just talked to another
video at the same time the difference
between vegans and reduced Aryans we
have to admit is one of degree it's true
when you buy a car the car may invisibly
contains non vegan things the tires may
be convinced you know actually no
chemicals that are in these things even
the roads you know the actual paving it
turns out they use some animal products
so I need oh I mean these kind of
unbelievable things you find out about
wallpaper or can be non-vegan and so on
this is true you know you okay if you
even wanna puts but the point is are
veganism as opposed to reduce at
arianism is a firm basis to pursue that
kind of political change to say no to
start with we will not take taxpayers
dollars and support and subsidize the
expansion of you know the Canadian dairy
industry or the New Zealand dairy
industry or whatever it is right and
then beyond that you know very easy next
step is to say hey let's talk about
positive taxation let's the same way
cigarettes almost every country in the
world now I think there's a tax on
cigarettes and it's not the same as the
tax on schoolbooks
there's an extra high tax we could very
easily put a 10% extra tax on dairy milk
and recycle some of money haven't have
reverse taxation make soy milk cheaper
or whatever kind of thing we can start
this kind of process of engineering
social change without throwing anyone in
prison it's not gonna be like the drug
war it's not gonna be like cracking down
on opium and cocaine users we're not
going to be throwing people in prison
because they're they're smoking yogurt
you know what I mean but we can start
that step by step so yeah for us as a
community as a would be community for us
as a movement or a proto movement
defining yourself through that boycott
through their refusal to buy meat and
dairy it's important it's meaningful it
gives us a sense of identity and purpose
but that's all it does and now if you
want change you got to go out and get it